Hello, let's say that you are trying
to identify whether the author for
a certain poem is Lucas or not.
You can either take all of Lucas's
poems and put them into data sets and
instead of predicting K classes,
you'll now predicts K plus one classes.
All the previous poems of
other authors plus Lucas.
So that's why it's K plus one.
Or you can compare one of Lucas's
poems to another poem and
that is where one shot learning comes in.
In this video,
I'll show you how you can do that.
>> To understand the difference between
classification and one shot learning.
First consider identifying or
classifying signatures based on
one through K possible classes.
You might use some kind of classification
model trained on the K classes probably
with a softmax function at the end
to find the maximum probability.
Then at recognition time classify
the input signature to one of those
corresponding classes.
That's great if you have a signature
list that's rarely changes.
But what if you get a new
signature to classify?
It would be expensive to retrain
the model every time this happens.
And besides, unless you have
a great many examples of that
new signature model training won't work
very well in one shot learning, you
need to be able to recognize a signature
repeatedly from just one example.
You can do this with a learned
similarity function, then you can test
a similarity score against some threshold
to see if two signatures are the same.
So the problem changes to determining
which class to instead measuring
similarity between two classes.
And this is very useful
especially in banks.
For example, every time there's
a new signature, you can't retrain
your entire system to classify
the signatures into K possible outputs.
So instead you just learn a similarity
function that can be used to calculate
a similarity score.
That can in turn be used to identify
whether two signatures are the same.
You already did this using cosine
similarity as the similarity function.
If the result was greater
than some threshold tau,
you determine the inputs to be the same.
In the case of comparing signatures,
if the similarity is less than or
equal to tau,
then the signatures are different.
>> In this video,
I spoke about one shot learning and
I told you why it is a very
effective technique.
One shot learning makes
use of Siamese networks.
In the next video, I'll show you how you
can train and test your Siamese network.